- [Instructor] Okay, back to the code we go
through a basic implementation, of spring security.
I do want to warn you
there's a lot of little typing that's going on here.
So this one you're really going to need to pay attention
to what you're typing and use that pause button
to catch up with me as you're doing it.
So let's go back to our room web app
and let's open up the POM file.
And once again, we're going to add another dependency.
And this time the dependency
is Spring Boot Starter Security
from org.Spring framework boots.
let's get rid of that version
and let Maven bring it in.
Alright, now that that's done,
I want to open up our base package and source main Java
and we're going to create another new package
this time called Config
and this is really good practice
to separate your construct as much as you can
within your application.
So let's create a new Config called SecurityConfig
and we will annotate this class
with at configuration
and
at enable web security.
Now when you come down here to our class definition
we need to extends
the web security
configure adapter
and we need to implement a method.
So we're going to override a method.
And again, I'm using my generate pop-up with Control Enter.
You get something very similar.
And the one that we want to use is the configure
that takes the HTTP security attribute.
Now let's delete the super in there
and let's get ready to start doing some typing.
So HTTP
dot authorized requests
dot ant matchers.
This is going to allow us to define which routes
we're actually going to to control.
So we're going to control everything at slash
And specifically everything at API.
And we want to call, permit all on those
and we're going to do any request
authenticated.
So we're going to permit them all
but only allow them if they are authenticated.
Now we're going to put an and in here
and we're going to provide a form login
and a login page.
And that login page is going to respond at slash login.
And we were going to permit all to that page.
Obviously, if you can't get to the page, you can't log in.
So we've got to permit everybody there
and
we will also create a log out routine
permit all.
But this is just good practice.
We're actually not going to implement log out
but this gives you the idea of what you need to do.
Now, in addition, we're going to auto wire a config,
Configured global
with the authentication manager builder
off.
We'll allow this to throw an exception.
Let's go ahead and import that in
Now in here is where we're going to build our auth,
in memory authentication.
Now we're going to use the No Op
password encoder
and you will notice
that this is deprecated
and it's deprecated always.
It always has been because this is not
something you should ever use
in a real system
in the demo environment,it's fine.
But for right now, just know
that you should never use this outside of this purpose.
So now we will specify a user
that we can use with this.
And the user is going to have a username
of user
and a password
of password super secret here,
and roles
a user role.
Now, a couple more things that we need to do,
Let's go to source main resources and our templates
and we are going to create a new HTML file.
We will call this one login.
We will set our XMLs namespace
TH equal
to
www dot Time-Lift dot org.
We'll set a title
and we are going to create
a form
and the form will have a TH action
equal to
at
slash login.
So this is telling you to go to the login.
That's defined based on the template
and the method
will be
post.
Of course, we've got to post that data.
Now we'll build a div in here
and we'll do a label
of username
colon.
And then within here, we'll put an input
type is text.
Name
is
username.
We'll close that out.
And I'm just going to copy this element
and we'll change a few values.
So it is passwords
The type is passwords so that it masks set
and the value is password
or the name.
And now we're going to create another div.
And in that div,
we will create an input;
type is submit.
So we can just use the Enter key
and the value will be
Login.
And now we have our template.
So one more thing, and that is
that we need to actually be able to serve this templates.
So let's go to our controllers
and we will create a new Java class.
And we are going to name this Authentication Controller
we'll annotate this with at
controller.
Now we're not going to put a request mapping
on the actual class
because this can be used for other things like log out.
So we're going to put it on the gate mapping
And we're going to respond at login,
public string,
get login,
and we will simply return login
go ahead and optimize those imports real quick
put in the missing semi-colon
and now we can start our application.
Once your application has started, let's go
to a web browser and in the web browser.
We will go to local host
80, 80 slash rooms.
You'll notice we're redirected to a login page.
So now here, if I put in user and password
as my values and hit login,
now I'm taken to the rooms page.
Now, if I go to staff
you'll see that my session is maintained.
I don't have to re-authenticate
which is what we would expect.
And I can also go to
and call the data itself
through the web browser, to the API
because I'm still authenticated within that session.